Add initial coredump document (#195)
WebAssembly/tool-conventions: Coredump.md

This document describes the usage of coredump for post-mortem debugging with
WebAssembly.

Stability of this specification: **experimental**.

# Idea

When WebAssembly enters a trap, it starts unwinding and collects debugging
information. For each stack frame, collect the values in locals (includes
function parameters) and on the stack. Along with an instruction binary offset

> (relative to the code section, as specified by [DWARF]). Finally, make a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(relative to the code section, as specified by [DWARF]) of the call to the next frame or instruction that caused the trap. Finally, make a
```

snapshot of the linear memory (or multiple linear memories when the
[multi-memory] feature is used), tables and globals.

All these informations are saved to the file, called the coredump file.

The post mortem analyze is done using the coredump and [DWARF] informations.
Similar to the debugging flow with [gdb].

> ## Runtime support

Reviewer: This doc should say somewhere near the top what the implementation status is, i.e. which runtime(s) and/or tools implement this.

Most of the WebAssembly runtimes are already able to present a useful stacktrace
on crash to the user. When they are configured to emit a coredump, they collect
the debugging information and write a coredump file.

An example output:
```
$ wasmrun module.wasm

Exit 1: Uncaught RuntimeError: memory access out of bounds (core dumped).
``` 
A coredump file has been generated.

For experimenting, runtime support is not strictly necessary. A tools can
transform the Wasm binary to inject code that will manually unwind the stack and
collect debugging information, for instance [wasm-edit coredump]. Such a
transformation has important limitations; a trap caused by an invalid memory
operation or exception in a host function might not be caught.

## Security and privacy considerations

Using the WebAssembly linear memory for debugging exposes the risk of seeing,
manipulating and/or collecting sensitive informations. Handling of sensitive
data is out of scope.

> No particular security considerations.

Reviewer: maybe say that this because this tool is intended to be used by the developer of the application?

> ## Debugger support

Reviewer: It's probably worth saying that Chrome's wasm debugger extension also doesn't support core dumps, but might potentially be able to at some point. Challenges for coredumps in the web context would include the fact that part of emscripten's state (and of course most of a larger web app's state) are in JS rather than wasm, and AFAIK there's not a similar proposal or standard for web postmortem debugging.

Author: Yes, good point. In theory, the stackframe informations could be added to a WebAssembly exception object and a tool like emscripten could add its state for each frame. A JS API will also need to provide a way to serialize the coredump.

Author: Added your suggestion, thanks.

[gdb] doesn't support Wasm coredump and it's unclear if it can. Wasm coredump
differ from ELF coredump in a few significant ways:
- Wasm semantics; usage of locals, globals and the stack.
- The process image is only the Wasm linear memory.
- etc.

For experimenting, a custom tool has been built and mimics [gdb]: [wasmgdb].

> # Coredump file format

Author: Yeah, I want to make a follow up change. It will reuse the Wasm module binary encoding for coredump, ie each thread stack will be in a custom section.

This document describes the usage of coredump for post-mortem debugging with
WebAssembly.

# Idea

When WebAssembly enters a trap, it starts unwinding and collects debugging
information. For each stack frame, collect the values in locals (includes
function parameters) and on the stack. Along with an instruction binary offset
(relative to the code section, as specified by [DWARF]). Finally, make a
snapshot of the linear memory (or multiple linear memories when the
[multi-memory] feature is used), tables and globals.

> All these informations are saved to the file, called the coredump file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this information is saved to the file, called the coredump file.
```

> The post mortem analyze is done using the coredump and [DWARF] informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The post mortem analysis is done using the coredump and [DWARF] information.
```

Similar to the debugging flow with [gdb].

# Implementation status

Stability of this specification is **experimental**.

Tools that support the generation of Wasm coredumps:
- [wasm-edit]

> Debugger that support post-mortem debugging with Wasm coredumps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debugger that supports post-mortem debugging with Wasm coredumps:
```

- [wasmgdb]

## Runtime support

Most of the WebAssembly runtimes are already able to present a useful stacktrace
on crash to the user. When they are configured to emit a coredump, they collect
the debugging information and write a coredump file.

An example output:
```
$ wasmrun module.wasm

Exit 1: Uncaught RuntimeError: memory access out of bounds (core dumped).
``` 
A coredump file has been generated.

> For experimenting, runtime support is not strictly necessary. A tools can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For experimenting, runtime support is not strictly necessary. A tool can
```

Using the WebAssembly linear memory for debugging exposes the risk of seeing,
manipulating and/or collecting sensitive informations.

For the user of Wasm coredumps, there's no particular security or privacy
considerations.

## Debugger support

[gdb] doesn't support Wasm coredump and it's unclear if it can. Wasm coredump
differ from ELF coredump in a few significant ways:
- Wasm semantics; usage of locals, globals and the stack.
- The process image is only the Wasm linear memory.
- etc.

For experimenting, a custom tool has been built and mimics [gdb]: [wasmgdb].

It seems possible for Chrome's Wasm debugger extension to support Wasm
coredumps.  Challenges for coredumps in the web context would be to collect the
instance's state as tools like emscripten (and of course most of a larger web
app's state) are in JS rather than Wasm.

# Coredump file format

The generated coredump is a binary file containing: 
- a snapshot of the WebAssembly linear memory or relevant regions.
- the `coredump` struct.

The placement of the `coredump` struct within the coredump file is not defined
yet. However, for the sake of argument we assume it's at offset 0.

# `coredump` struct

> The coredump struct starts with the numbers of frame recorded and the combined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The coredump struct starts with the number of frames recorded and the combined
```

This document describes the usage of coredump for post-mortem debugging with WebAssembly.

Stability of this specification: **experimental**.

# Idea

When WebAssembly enters a trap, it starts unwinding and collects debugging information. For each stack frame, the state of the WebAssembly instance can be captured by collecting the values:
- in locals (includes function parameters)

> - in globals

Reviewer 2: We talking a little bit about this the meeting, but I think the wasm globals can't be collected for each frame.  

 Just like the heap/linear memory these are global to the module and are not stored on a per-frame basis, so the unwinder would have no way to know the different values for different stack frames.

tables, globals, and linear memory should all be collected, but I think there would only be one copy of each (not per-frame copies)?

Reviewer 2: Speaking of which, I don't see any mention of linear memory here, but presumably we want to include that?  That whole thing?

Author: > We talking a little bit about this the meeting, but I think the wasm globals can't be collected for each frame.
> Just like the heap/linear memory these are global to the module and are not stored on a per-frame basis

Thinking about this more, you are right, it make sense to me now.

> tables, globals, and linear memory should all be collected, but I think there would only be one copy of each (not per-frame copies)?

Yes (we could have multiple linear memories with https://github.com/WebAssembly/multi-memory). I added them in the document.

- on the stack 

> Along with an instruction binary offset (relative to the code section, as specified by [DWARF]). All the information are written to a coredump file.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that, by definition, each of these offsets will point to a `call` (or `call_indirect`) instruction in the code?   (except the leaf one I guess?)

Author: Yes. By leaf do you mean the instruction that caused the trap? That one should be part of the coredump as well and its offset recorded.

Reviewer 2: Yup.   That makes sense.  Thanks.

The post mortem analyze is done using the coredump file and [DWARF] informations. Similar to the debugging flow with [gdb].

## Runtime support

Most of the WebAssembly runtimes are already able to present a useful stacktrace on crash to the user. When they are configured to emit a coredump, they collect the debugging information and write a coredump file.

An example output:
```
$ wasmrun module.wasm

Exit 1: Uncaught RuntimeError: memory access out of bounds (core dumped).
``` 
A coredump file has been generated.

> For experimenting, runtime support is not strictly necessary. A tools can transform the Wasm binary to inject code that will manually unwind the stack and collect debugging information, for instance [wasm-edit coredump]. Such a transformation has important limitations; a trap caused by an invalid memory operation or exception in a host function might not be caught.

Reviewer 2: Can you wrap all these paragraphs at 80 columns?
